This Digital Library is published by the Association for Computing.
Copyright © 1998 ACM, Inc.
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------

     Algorithm 744; a stochastic algorithm for global optimization with
                                 constraints

                           F. Michael Rabinowitz

                  ACM Transactions on Mathematical Software
                  Vol. 21, No. 2 (June 1995), Pages 194-213

               [Abstract] ..... [Index Terms] ..... [Review]
                     [Full Text in PDF Format, 1270 KB]

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------

                                  Abstract

A stochastic algorithm is presented for finding the global optimum of a
function of n variables subject to general constraints. The algorithm is
intended for moderate values of n, but it can accommodate objective and
constraint functions that are discontinuous and can take advantage of
parallel processors. The performance of this algorithm is compared to that
of the Nelder-Mead Simplex algorithm and a Simulated Annealing algorithm on
a variety of nonlinear functions. In addition, one-, two-, four-, and
eight-processor versions of the algorithm are compared using 64 of the
nonlinear problems with constraints collected by Hock and Schittkowski. In
general, the algorithm is more robust than the Simplex algorithm, but
computationally more expensive. The algorithm appears to be as robust as the
Simulated Annealing algorithm, but computationally cheaper. Issues discussed
include algorithm speed and robustness, applicability to both computer and
mathematical models, and parallel efficiency.

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------

General Terms

ALGORITHMS, PERFORMANCE

Categories and Subject Descriptors

G.1.6  Mathematics of Computing, NUMERICAL ANALYSIS, Optimization, Nonlinear
       programming.
G.3    Mathematics of Computing, PROBABILITY AND STATISTICS, Probabilistic
       algorithms (including Monte Carlo).
G.4    Mathematics of Computing, MATHEMATICAL SOFTWARE, Certification and
       testing.

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------

                           From Computing Reviews

M. Minkoff

A stochastic algorithm for global optimization subject to general
constraints is presented. The algorithm is based on using an adaptive n
-dimensional torus to surround and isolate the global minimum. The paper
compares the torus algorithm with two related approaches: the traditional
Nelder-Mead simplex method and the use of simulated annealing algorithms.
The torus algorithm is claimed to be more efficient than the simulated
annealing algorithm and more robust than the simplex algorithm.

The torus algorithm is presented after a brief overview of the other two
algorithms. Thus the paper is self-contained and provides a fairly detailed
description of the torus algorithm. Details of the relevant user-specified
parameters and the controlling function are given, although it would be
difficult to implement the algorithm independently.

A standard set of test problems is used to provide computational experience.
In particular, the standard Rosenbrock function, the parabolic multiminima
function, and a collection of problems by Hock and Schittkowski are used to
illustrate performance.

The paper presents some results on parallel function evaluation. As the
author points out, this approach is more of a Monte Carlo approach, and
results are given by conducting function evaluations in a group (thus
simulating parallel performance), rather than by actually running on a
parallel computational system.

This well-written paper provides an interesting new algorithm in global
optimization.

                           Additional Information

  Software   Software associated with the paper has been included in the
             Collected Algorithms of the ACM.

                  Download Algorithm 744 (gzipped ASCII file, 33 kB)

             Refer to our notes on file compression if you have
             difficulty in downloading.
